Hi, this is Scott. I
really appreciate our sponsors because
they make the show possible.
Today's show is sponsored by
developer express, become a UI
superhero with dev express controls
and libraries. Deliver elegant.net solutions
that address customer needs today
by leveraging your existing knowledge,
you can build next generation
touch enabled solutions for tomorrow,
you can download your free
30 day trial@dxdothanselminutes.com. That's dx.hanselminutes.com
From hanselminutes.com. It's Hansel minutes,
our weekly discussion with web
developer and technologist Scott Hanselman.
This is Lawrence Ryan announcing the
show number 560. In this
episode, Scott talks with Nolan
Lawson about the concept of
progressive enhancement and how it
applies to web apps today.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with Nolan Lawson. He's a
program manager on the edge
team, but I'm actually not
talking to you about edge.
I want to talk to
you about something different. You
put a pro blog post
out recently, and it started
kind of an interesting debate.
Yeah, I guess you could
call it that. It was
definitely interesting. What was the
controversy? Well, I wrote a
blog post called progressive enhancement.
Isn't dead, but it smells
funny. And this was kind
of a response to a
talk that I gave recently
at frontiers cough in Amsterdam,
where I made some sort
of controversial statements about progressive
enhancement and with some folks
that went over pretty well
with other folks, it did
not go over well. And
so this blog post was
my attempt to sort of
clear up my position on
the issue and to continue
the debate. Okay. So let's,
let's back up and let's
talk to the audience about
what is progressive enhancement for,
you know, for the developer
who's on their way to
work right now and their
boss wants them to make
it work on all browsers.
Yeah, so progressive enhancement is
kind of a loaded term.
A lot of people use
it for a lot of
different meetings, but in my
mind there are sort of
two different major interpretations of
it. There's the sort of
broad version that says the
way that you should build
websites is you should start
with a, a basis of
functionality. You know, what is
the core value proposition of
this website? And they make
sure that that works using
the simplest possible technology and
then enhance upward based on
that. So this is kind
of in contrast to a
graceful degree degradation where you
would build your whizzy snappy
feature complete, you know, has
all the bells and whistles
website. And then for browsers
that don't support X, Y,
Z feature, you just kind
of peel those, those features
back. And argument goes that
the progressive enhancement approach is
kind of more battle-tested, it's
more foolproof. So there's that,
that definition of progressive enhancement,
which, which I think is
actually a very sensible way
to build websites. And then
there's also a sort of
more narrow definition, a more
classical definition of progressive enhancement,
which is that you should
start with HTML as your
baseline functionality and then layer
CSS on top of that
as another layer, and then
JavaScript as another layer. And
this is commonly interpreted as
you should make your websites
work without JavaScript. So if
you say you should make
your websites work without JavaScript,
that seems like a reasonable
statement. It doesn't seem controversial
for someone who's got many
years of history on the
web, you know, make it
work with HTML, text boxes
forms like we did just
fine without JavaScript for many,
many years. And now that
that, you know, very, very
inexpensive, very, very low end,
you know, devices can, can
work great with just HTML.
That seems like a totally
non-controversial statement. Well, it ends
up being a very controversial
statement because as it turns
out, this is largely not
the way that people are
building websites today. So I
mentioned my blog posts that
there's, there's lots of examples
of major websites that just
do not work at all
without JavaScript, Facebook, Instagram. These
are sites that if you
go to them, you'll either
be greeted with a totally
blank page or maybe some
nice little a notice saying,
Hey, we require JavaScript and
you should enable JavaScript in
order to, to surf surf
the web on our page.
Interesting. So I have a
talk about JavaScript where I
tease, I tease people about
not working with JavaScript because
ultimately we do recognize that
JavaScript makes things better, but
it doesn't it come down
to whether or not you
want your audience to be
bigger or not. Right. Is
this about like the vegan
CrossFitters that also don't run
with JavaScript? You know what
I mean? Like they're just
like, yeah. You know, I
don't have a television and
I run with JavaScript disabled.
Is this about making them
happy or is this about
making the millions and millions
of people with smaller, low
end devices that don't have
the, the, the power to
run JavaScript on a mobile
device? Well, that's actually exactly
the point where I kind
of take exception with the
narrow version of JavaScript is
that I actually don't think
that it enhances your target
audience by quite so much,
maybe as it used to.
So I think maybe back
when the basis of functionality
was something like  where
you really couldn't be sure
whether this thing was going
to reliably run your JavaScript
or not, because it didn't
have it, wasn't very feature
rich. And a lot of
the features were very buggy
or slow. So it made
a lot of sense to
just cut off JavaScript for
such browsers. I think it's
a technique that I believe
the BBC called cutting the
mustard. But what I pointed
out in this blog post
is that, Hey, when I
build web applications myself nowadays,
especially progressive web applications, I
find that my basis of
functionality is say a three
or four year old Android
phone, you know, a very
low end kind of Android
phone that might be popular
in a place like India
or Southeast Asia or, or
Nigeria. And these devices, they
have auto updating browsers. They
can run the latest, latest
JavaScript features available for the
web platform. And so it
doesn't make a whole lot
of sense to me to
constrain myself to this know
JavaScript world, like who exactly
am I making my websites
more accessible to when I
do that? Interesting. Okay. With,
does it, is it then
maybe not a no JavaScript
or like full angular Gmail
kind of an application, or
is this just a matter
of, of, you know, light
JavaScript? I mean, if you
go to a website like
the verge, you know, it's
like the homepage of several
megs and Lord knows how
many different half dozen or
a dozen asynchronous JavaScript libraries
all coming in and jabbering
at each other all at
the same time, it doesn't
have to be either or
does it, No, it absolutely
doesn't need to. So this
is a very complex issue
and there's a lot of
subtleties here and the arguments
against a website like the
verge or any website that
overuses JavaScript, which, I mean,
arguably is a lot of
the web right now. This
is actually, I would argue
as someone who works on
the performance team on, on,
on Microsoft edge, that that
is the number one performance
problem on the web. These
days is overuse of JavaScript.
Really. So it's not, it's
not slow internet or slow
CPU. It's just JavaScript doing
things in the background and
that just not Oh yeah.
And you, you don't have
to ask me, all you
have to do is ask
you're a CPU fan. I
mean, you go to the
average website these days and
you hear your fans slowly
start to we're as like
wind up as it is.
It's running all these, you
know, a lot of his
ads and trackers, but also
a lot of it is
just kind of a sloppiness
sloppy use of JavaScript. So
that being said, like, I,
I feel like it's possible
to hold that opinion, hold
the opinion that JavaScript is
overused, and we should learn
how to use it more
judiciously and to use features
like code splitting and server
side rendering to, to limit
our JavaScript. While also saying
that I don't think it's
extremely valuable to make a
website work, even making it
in the core value proposition
of website work without JavaScript.
How does this mean that
we don't end up writing
two websites, completely two entirely
different website? Well, and that's
kind of the challenge, right?
And, and that's the challenge
that I would pose to
classical progressive enhancement advocates who
would look at a site
like Instagram and say, Hey,
this is silly. Like, why
is it showing me a
blank screen without JavaScript? It,
it could, and you could
build Instagram with, with an
input field to upload a
file and a, and an
image tag, right? That's what
they say. And, but you're
right. I mean, you would
effectively then have to build
two different versions of Instagram
because it is a very
rich client side, JavaScript application
as written. And so my
response to that is that
JavaScript frameworks have largely kind
of risen to the occasion
on this and the, the
modern JavaScript frameworks like react
and angular two and Ember
and Vue JS. They all
have features where you can
take you, you can write
your app as a purely
pure client side, JavaScript application,
full JavaScript code base. You
don't even have to have
any HTML or CSS in
there at all. And then
you can use features like
server side rendering to do
Intel and code splitting, to
do intelligent splitting of this
JavaScript, to render on the
service side or to render
at build time into HTML,
CSS, JavaScript as your build
target. And, and that is
a good practice to do
because the classical progressive enhancement
advocates are 100%, right? That
it tends to be a
better for first load performance
to send down HTML and
CSS, and then have minimal
JavaScript after that for first
load performance, that is way
faster than sending down empty
markup, like an empty body
tag say, and then a
script tag, a gigantic script
tag that just renders everything.
So, okay. Let me see
if I can peel this
away. Cause like you said,
it is complicated. So you're
saying that if you don't
have JavaScript, you certainly it's
unacceptable to just show up
and just get like an
empty white screen. You know,
if you go to one
of the tumblers, like side
Java script, you can see
examples where it's like, the
site looks great with JavaScript,
you turn it off and
it just either breaks like
no one even thought to
do that or you get
just chunks of stuff, but
you keep using this term
splitting. Can you parse that
out for me? Yes. I'd
love to do define that,
but real quick, I want
to, to assert that I
actually don't think it's unacceptable
to have a page that
gives a white screen without
JavaScript. I mean, this is
the way that many people
are building websites today. However,
I think that it's a
performance boost to apply server
side rendering, AKA progressive enhancement
through techniques like server-side react.
Server-side angular now as for
code splitting. That's the idea
that instead of shipping down
one gigantic monolithic JavaScript bundle
on first load that does
everything and anything that your
entire website might do your
entire, let's say single page
app might do you split
it up based on functionality
so that when I go
to the homepage, like, do
I really need a bunch
of JavaScript that tells me
that renders the about page
or renders the credits page
or renters the contact us
page? No, I'm probably never
even going to click on
those. So it's really silly
to ship down all that
JavaScript on, on first load.
I see. So that again,
that's funny that that it's
just such a different perspective
from the front end and
the back end. You're simply
saying that JavaScript folks in
front end folks should apply
single responsibility principles and have
those go all the way
out to their deployment, their,
their deployment process and the
D the unit of measurement
that the, the unit of
work, rather the modules should
reflect the work that's being
done. And you shouldn't be
bringing down, you know, system
dot JS that represents everything
that the site could ever
potentially do. It should be
broken into pieces, but it's
easy because we have, we
all have, you know, 30
megabit connections and fast computers.
So we, we, we designed
for a user that we
think is us when it
turns out they never really
are us. Yeah. And this
is the real challenge that
I see the challenge is
to, is to fix our
toolings, to fix our build
systems so that it's very
easy. It's very ergonomic to
build using whatever methods you
want, which more and more
is just almost purely JavaScript.
And then have that output
as a bill target some
very optimized format for your
website. And I think the,
the JavaScript frameworks of 2016
all do this like server
side rendering is now a
table stakes for any respectable
JavaScript framework. So You said
in your, at your talk
at frontiers and Amsterdam, you
had a slide that said
in 2016, it's okay to
build a website that doesn't
work without JavaScript. And that
was where it went South.
Yes. That, that is where
someone took a picture of
me. And then it got
retweeted hundreds of times. And
there were lots of notables
in the web community who
had some choice words for
me in that slide. They
variable  for slate disagreed
with it. They're saying to
be clear, let's just reverse
that in 2016, it is
not okay to build a
website that doesn't work with
that JavaScript. They want JavaScript
to be bread and butter
of the web. Yeah. The,
the arguments that I saw
were things like, Hey, just
because Gmail and Facebook and
Instagram and other big sites
do this doesn't mean you
should too. And Hey, this,
you should be doing this
because of accessibility. You should
be doing this because of
feature phones, running proxy browsers,
Hey, you should be doing
this because, because of performance,
which is the thing that
I actually really agree with.
It's, it's kind of a,
it's a, it's a very
longstanding, accepted wisdom it's approach.
And I think that when
I said that it kind
of hit a nerve because
I think what I, what
I showed is that there's
actually a very big divide
between what is the traditional
accepted wisdom. Like you go
and buy an O'Reilly book
and it tells you to
do this. And then the
way people are actually building
websites and the way that
I approach it is that
the way I see people
building websites is that they
don't even think to go
into their settings and turn
off JavaScript and see what
the page looks like. Like
it has never even crossed
their mind that it's just
not how people build websites
nowadays. And I'm happy to
just kind of accept that
reality and then to work
with developers from there and
say, Hey, but have you
tried turning off JavaScript? Because
if you do, you know,
you get a different view
of your website and you
get a view of your
website that might give you
an idea of how you
can improve the loading performance,
how you can show the
user an initial view of
your page using HTML and
CSS, even before the JavaScript
loads. You know, I prefer
to have that conversation rather
than sort of dogmatic, like,
no, you're doing it wrong.
Stop doing it wrong. Yeah.
See, that seems very reasonable
from my perspective, that seems
like a user empathy. It
seems like a no different
than saying we should put
Ault tags on our images
because we should think about
the low vision people. Like
there's just there's, you should
look at the various angles
that someone comes into your
site and looks at it
with different perspectives and, you
know, understood, understand what it
looks like. And you're saying
that there is a class
of people out there who
don't have JavaScript. So let's
take a look a, that
sounds like that. Simply saying
that it's okay to build
a website that doesn't work
with that JavaScript is the
there's missing too much context.
Yeah. And there's different degrees
to all of this. Like
in fact, I think one
place where developers get hung
up on this is they
think, you know, who has
JavaScript disabled, like nobody has
JavaScript disabled, but it's not
even so much about that.
This, the strongest argument for
progressive enhancement, this traditional progressive
enhancement approach is just that
the JavaScript takes a while
to come down and your
users don't have JavaScript when
the JavaScript hasn't loaded yet.
And so it's a missed
opportunity if you send down
empty markup and then wait
for your gigantic JavaScript bundle
to, to download, to parse,
to execute before you render
anything, like that's a missed
opportunity. You could show the
user some initial view of
your page, at least the
background color or something, you
know, which increases the perceived
performance of the page. And
this is the way that
I always like to talk
about it as a performance
boost. You know, not as
like a moral imperative or
something, because I think the
actual number of users who
are without JavaScript is becoming
vanishingly small every year. And
so that's, that's not the
right way to argue it,
I believe. Okay. So then
this is about responsible use
of JavaScript appropriate use of
JavaScript to your point there,
they might have Android devices,
the next billion people who
come online will be on
smartphones. You know, they will
have a browser that gets
updated, and it's probably less
important that we worry about
JavaScript and more important that
we worry about the reliability
of their internet connection. Yeah.
And that's actually the, the
big point that I was
trying to get across in
my blog post is that,
Hey, we're living in a
world now where people have
very capable smartphones, very capable
browsers, and what's not reliable
at all. Is the network.
Like if you look at
the, the quality of network
connections around the world, it's
quite poor. And in some
places it's even getting poorer,
like I read a report
by twin prime that said
that even in the U
S a LTE speeds have
slowed by 50% in the
last year, just because so
many more people are coming
onto these networks and they're
getting saturated. And the solution
that I propose to that
is to use API APIs
in, in the browser available
on the client side that
allow you to cache data
locally and to prefer the
local network or for the
local cash at all times,
instead of going to the
network, which is slow unreliable,
unresponsive. And this is kind
of th this is usually
put under the umbrella of
offline first, this idea of
preferring the local, you know,
It's so interesting that we've
been talking about that it
feels like since 2011, 2012,
and here we are with
doing all kinds of amazing
3d things with, with Theano
CSS and pushing JavaScript to
amazing levels. But we also
have this nice kind of
basically SQL server database and
file system inside of JavaScript.
And we would rather download,
you know, a 40 K
or even a 400 K
PNG, then put the effort
into downloading. For example, the
product catalog for our website
is Jason. And then doing
all of our work locally
on that product catalog, as
opposed to constantly paging through
stuff. Why, why are we
spending time bringing down hero
images and not the database,
and then doing all the
work on the client side?
I think the answer to
that is that it's just
really hard. Like, ah, this
is actually kind of my
area of expertise. I work
on an open source project
called pouch DB, which is
a, an instructionally over index
DV. And so I'm very
familiar with all these browser
storage mechanisms with a P
it's a pun on couch
DB. Yeah. It's essentially a
couch DB that runs in
your browser. And to be
honest, like a lot of
these technologies didn't really meet,
reach maturity until recently. I
mean, as little as three
years ago, you know, you
didn't have index DB in,
in browsers like Safari or
an older versions of Android.
You didn't have service workers,
service workers quite new before
that you had application cash,
which is now deprecated, but
was really, really hard to
work with, but it was
basically the only way to
get reliable, offline support in
your site. And so I
think that there's increasing interest
now, this especially increasing interest
because Google particularly I've been
pushing very hard on this
with their progressive web apps
idea, which the other browser
vendors like, like edge and,
and Firefox are very much
behind now. And, and they've
been pushing ideas of offline
first because they recognize this
reality of the network being
very, very poor, but browsers
being quite capable these days.
And there's also more and
more recognition about what the
server's good at and what
the client's good at. And
I like that you're pointing
out that these, these devices,
these, these, what we think
of as low end devices
are certainly more powerful than
the desktops we had 10
years ago. So let's get
them doing a little bit
of work, but let's be
responsible about what, what their
job is and what the
service job is. Yes, absolutely.
It's, it's, it's critical to
just be aware of the
trade offs, like the trade
offs in things like, you
know, do you value first
page load versus subsequent page
load? Is your site mostly
about consumption or is it
about interaction and synchronization? I
mean, if you're building a
static site, like I think
that building it as HTML
first is perfectly valid. That's
a really good way to
do it. And you can
still get the best of
both worlds. There's emerging, there's
emerging frameworks like Gatsby and
next JS that allow you
to essentially build a static
site that then has a
service worker that at, and
a client's side library that
handles client side rendering, a
service worker rendering, and then
service side rendering when it
needs to. So I think
the tooling is getting better
and better to the point
where this whole issue of
do write HTML first, or
do you write JavaScript first?
I think it's going to
matter less and less. It's
going to be a question
of how good are our
tools and what, what are
they out putting as a
build target, Parse out this
idea of isomorphic JavaScript a
little bit. That might be
a term that people who
are listening are not a
hundred percent familiar with. Oh,
sure. That's a good, that's
a good point. Yeah. So
isomorphic JavaScript is this idea
that kind of, it kind
of started to gain popularity,
I think a couple of
years ago because of a
blog post from Airbnb, where
the idea is essentially that
you write JavaScript such that
you can easily run it
either on the server side
or on the client side.
And when you wrote it
on the service side, you
typically would run it in
something like no JS. And
this doesn't necessarily mean that
you have to rewrite your
entire server and node. You
might just have a little
child process or something, or
it might just be a
part of your build process
for your JavaScript, but you
want to have this flexibility
of, you know, say when
you want to do a
form validation, you know, you
need to do that on
both the service side and
the client side. And it's
very efficient. If you can
just write that code once,
run it on the client
and then also run it
on the server and not
have to have two separate
code bases that you keep
in sync. Interesting. Okay. And
is it even now popular
to have people do service
side initial, like initial what
they call it, initial load
rendering, initial page rendering. Like
I see, I think that
people talk about that, but
I don't necessarily see it
in the wild. Yeah. It's
becoming easier and easier. I
mean, like I said, I
think it's table stakes now
for a modern JavaScript framework,
but it was definitely not
the, it was not the
standard, you know, even just
a few years ago, like
angular one didn't really have
any way of doing this.
And so people writing angular
applications who ran up against
these performance problems or these
problems of SEO, and they
realized they needed some kind
of static version of their
website, they were doing things
like, you know, loading it
in a Phantom in Phantom
JS, which is a headless
browser. So you actually load
the site in Phantom, JS,
run all the JavaScript and
then like spit that out
to a string essentially to
an HTML file, all these
hoops to jump through, to,
to get this isomorphic JavaScript
experience. And nowadays, like any
framework worth its salt has
some kind of some kind
of isomorphic offering. Yeah, I
though there was some cool
work happening on, on asp.net,
the aspect, and a team,
specifically guy named Steve Sanderson
who wrote knockout JS, you
know, when asp.net people do
angular apps, they'll have like
their backend, you know, producing
Jason or whatever, and then
their front end might be,
might be angular or something
else. We'll actually asp.net. We'll
use node to go and
do that, that first page
render on the server side.
So it's a kind of
a, it shells out to
node and then does whatever
the templating engine needs to
be to be rendered at
that time. So you're right.
That needs to be effortless.
It needs to just know
and be part of the
part of the system. It
shouldn't, you shouldn't have to
write that code yourself. Right.
And more and more, it's
becoming a kind of turnkey
solution. I mean, if it,
if it's a lot of
work, then people aren't going
to do it as we,
as we learn over and
over again with everything related
to performance, you know, which
is why, again, I think
this is not so much
an issue of how you
offer your websites, whether you
prefer to start with HTML
or whether you are a
react developer who wants to
do everything in JSX and
you want to have a
CSS in JavaScript and you
just want to live in
a JavaScript world. I think
that matters less nowadays. And
it matters more how sophisticated
our tools and do they
easily allow us to output
the most performance websites. Yeah.
So there's there's websites that
are performance focused there's websites
that can work on JavaScript
or not. But you also
had this, this comment around
the idea of a robust
web app, like what does
it mean for a, an
app to be robust? It
has to handle a number
of different suboptimal scenarios, right?
Yeah. And this is a
point that's often argued in
favor of the classical progressive
enhancement model. They'll say things
like, you know, what, if
the user starts receiving the
HTML and the CSS and
then the user goes into
a tunnel and the JavaScript
doesn't load. And so it
sounds funny, but it does
happen. It definitely does happen.
Yeah. But then I wouldn't
necessarily extrapolate from there that
okay. That is a reason
for me to make my
site work, like actually be
functional without JavaScript like a
hundred feet, the tunnel scenario.
Yes. The tunnel scenario. And
my argument against that, that
I gave my talk was,
well, you know, I've seen
that happen plenty of times.
I've also seen it happen
on say GitHub where the
CSS didn't load. And if
you see what it looks
like without the CSS, it's
actually almost totally unusable like
it is. I got it.
It doesn't look like anything
you see, you can barely
interact with it. So at
which point, I wouldn't really
attempt to interact with the
page at all to put
it in another way. I
think Laurie Voss from NPM
had a response to my
blog post, where he said
that if you were building
a website, that is, it
is primarily focused on interaction
and you need JavaScript for
your interaction. Then if the
JavaScript doesn't load on the
first load, then it's just
broken. Like there's no two
ways around it. And so
my belief is that for
rich immersive client side applications,
focusing less on that initial
load and more and more
on the offline scenario, we'll
get you a bigger wins.
Like what happens on the
subsequent loads? How do you,
how do you deal with
the case where the application
is loaded? JavaScript is activated,
but the network goes in
and out, you know, or,
or it doesn't just go
in and out. Maybe the
network appears to be there,
but then when you make
a request, you don't get
a response. Jake Archibald is
called this life. I, and
I think we've all experienced
it. And thinking about those
scenarios, I think leads to
better, to better web applications.
Yeah. I'm getting to the
point where they're you're right.
The LTE is slower. D
you know, you have a
page with 15 different external
dependencies. Maybe there are other
JavaScripts that are blocking the
page. It could be DNS,
you know, every time you
add a new thing to
your page, it potentially could
go down and then potentially
cause your page to just
hang in a strange state.
Yeah. At which point, I
mean, I think most people
would just reasonably refresh or
come back later. I mean,
and that's acceptable for some
websites. It's not acceptable for
other ones. If you're making
a content site like a
blog and your primary goal
is to deliver words to
your user like that. I
think that that should work
without JavaScript. That should maybe
even work without CSS. Like
your primary goal is to
deliver content from the server
to the client, but for
what applications that are interactive
and that, you know, synchronized
data, maybe you store data
locally. And then when the
network goes offline, you continue
allowing the user to work
with the data. And then
when they come back online,
the, you know, you, you
sync that data back. I
think the trying to make
that work without JavaScript is
a fool's errand. That makes
total sense to me. Like
if you want the customer
got on a plane, worked
for three hours on your
website and then landed scenario,
or they just went through
a tunnel scenario to work.
Of course it's folly to
do that without JavaScript, but
that gets to the progressive
part of enhancement. Right? If
you have this, then good
things happen. If you have
that, then even better things
happen and on and on.
Yeah. Which, which is a
very good way to think
about things. I am totally
pro progressive enhancement in the
broad sense I'm using features
like, like for instance, service
worker is a great example
of this. It's designed from
the ground up to work
with progressive enhancement for browsers
that don't support service worker,
you just get a normal
webpage. And then for browsers
that do you get this
really, really snappy, offline experience
where you can do lots
of fancy stuff inside of
the service worker. And that's,
that's totally a valid way
of building web applications. I
think it's a very sensible
way to do it. Yeah.
This might, this is a
little bit of a left
turn, but I was thinking
about looking at your blog
posts, you had a discussion
around module bloat and how
many different JavaScript modules get
loaded. And, you know, some
might be a hundred and
other websites like Apple might
have a thousand modules. How
much of that JavaScript is
actually being used versus how
much it was just being
handed to me and then
never run. Like, shouldn't there
be some kind of, you
know, they call it tree
trimming or tree shaking where
only the JavaScript that's being
run is shipped to me.
Yeah. That's, that's another blog
post I wrote recently called
the cost of small modules
where I kind of showed
that we're using these tools
like BrowserFind and Webpack to
turn our JavaScript code base,
which frequently has lots of
tiny little modules into one
big bundle. And just the
cost of those modules themselves,
just the overhead of the
sheer number of modules really
slows down the performance of
a page. And actually, I
mean, to my previous point,
if those modules are unused,
then code splitting will help
you out quite a bit
there. And most of the
bundlers support some kind of
code splitting. But what I
was trying to raise the
alarm about in that blog
post was, Hey, you know,
the JavaScript ecosystem because of
the way that node and
NPM work has gotten very
fond of kind of hyper
modularity. Like everyone loves these
like one, three line modules,
or even if you don't,
even, if you think you're
using one quote unquote module,
you know, under the hood,
you could have many, many
small files. And those actually
add up because of the
way that our tools work
because of the way our
bundlers work and to their
credit, the bundler authors that
I've spoken with have said,
yes, this is a real
problem. And yes, they're working
on fixing it. So what
pack two is actually in
the process of fixing this
and to your point about
tree shaking, that that is
something they've already implemented in
Webpack to beta now, where
the idea is that if
something is unused in your
JavaScript code base, it should
just be shaken out. It
should just be removed. Right?
Right. We should not be
zipping up the complete tree
of all dependencies of everything
that I could ever potentially
use and then shipping it
over. And then 10% of
it gets run. Yeah. And
this is the kind of
thing that would be solved
by tree shaking and coats
flooding. But again, this kinda
goes back to what I
was saying earlier about how
I think the primary thing
we should target and try
to fix these sorts of
issues is with tooling. We
shouldn't admonish web developers for
building in a particular way.
The reason that people build
JavaScript first is because it's
so easy. It's so fast.
They can get started in
five minutes, building a really
rich client side web application.
And that's great. And we
should enable that, that developer
productivity, but our tools should
be smart enough to do
these kinds of things by
default, do things like tree
shaking and module inlining, which
I talk about in this
post to deliver the most
compact, smallest bundle of JavaScript
possible, and also HTML and
CSS when appropriate. Okay. So
as we, as we close
out, where can people go
and learn about this? Like
you are, you know, these
cause you're in the community,
people who are listening might
find this to be all
very overwhelming. And now they're
realizing they have to read
16 different blog posts in
order to figure this stuff
out. I've probably dropped a
lot of buzzwords. I don't
know. I'm not sure what
my buzz words per minute
was. And then I try
to, I try to stop
people when the buzzword comes
up. That's fair. Well, you
can go to my blog@nolanlawson.com.
These are the two most
recent blog posts that I
wrote, the progressive enhancement one
and the small modules. One,
I also have my talks
listed. So you can go
and watch me rant about
this stuff in video format.
If that's what you prefer.
I also have links in
those posts to follow up
posts, where you can follow
the discussion and see how
the, how the debate progressed
back and forth. Very cool.
Well, thanks so much for
spending time with us today.
Yeah, it was a lot
of fun. Thanks, Scott. This
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes. We'll see you
again next week.